Address at Pocatello, Idaho, Thursday, June 28, 11:15 a. m. 



Governor Moore, Ladies and Gentlemen, Fellow Amer- 
icans All: 

IT IS a great privilege to stand before such a gathering of 
fellow Americans. We have been entranced by the 
wonders of nature, the magnificence of your mountains, 
the indescribable stretches of valleys which you have made 
to blossom, and the hills eternal. All through this splendid 
country we have been engrossed, enthralled, delighted, and 
entertained, but, after all, there is nothing to compare 
with the view which a body of your citizenship affords. 
[Applause.] I do not say that because it may be especially 
pleasing to you; I say it because it is a delight to me. 
Somehow you have a wholesomeness and a heartiness, and 
you afford the inspiration that comes from a distinctly 100 
per cent American audience. 

It has been a wonderful experience to travel in the 
West. I have been here before, but without deriving, 
perhaps, the same pleasure, and I am sure not with the 
same appreciation. I came to Pocatello some six years 
ago and not half so many of you came to see me at that 
time. [Laughter.] So I assume that your presence today 
may be considered as a tribute to those who are in authority 
in our government. It is a fine thing for those who repre- 
sent the government to get into more intimate contact 
with this wonderful land of ours. What a pity it is that 
the city of Washington, beautiful as the capital of your 
Republic is, knows only the atmosphere of official life, and 

what a pleasure it is to enjoy the inspiration and broaden- 
ing influence of a visit to this wonderful western land, no 
longer a frontier, but a most important part of the great 
Republic ! 

We had a tremendously interesting experience yester- 
day. Perhaps we came in more intimate contact than at 
any other place with the work of determined and resolute 
men engaged in turning the waste places into gardens. 
There came to me the suggestion of a rather intimate rela- 
tionship between the processes of turning waste lands into 
fertile fields and gardens by the application of the water 
stored up in the mountain gulches and springs and the 
making of a great Republic. Here lies a tremendous valley 
needing only the touch of water to make it blossom like 
a garden, and by man's genius the water is applied and 
we see the magnificent transformation. I wonder some- 
times if there is not a parallel in the life of the Republic. 
We have the great waste stretches in American life that 
need only the irrigating touch of American patriotism from 
the heart of the mountains, which represent our under- 
lying foundations. When you irrigate the waste places, 
you add greatly to the resources and the advancement of 
the Republic. 

Pledges Aid to the Sugar Industry 

Then there comes another impression from this 
western trip. I have been speaking of some of the problems 
of government, and the experiences of yesterday and today 
have all the more impressed me with the importance of 
one problem for which we must find a solution. I refer 
to the problem of transportation. No matter how liberally 
and bountifully you produce, unless you can find the trans- 
portation necessary for the delivery of your excess to the 
consuming world elsewhere, you have worked in vain. If 
you will stop to think you will realize that the first trans- 
action in human relationships required some sort of trans- 
portation for the delivery of the exchanged products. Here 
in the wonderful West you have the problem of trans- 
portation. I am glad to note that some practical methods 

of your own are being applied. I have been noting the 
development of the sugar industry in Colorado, Idaho and 
Utah. I can well understand how the one-time inordinate 
cost of sugar, because of transportation costs, led you to 
the development of that industry out here in the Rocky 
Mountain region; and, so long as I am President, every 
influence is going to be given to the maintenance of the 
American sugar industry, so that we may be self-reliant. 
[Applause.] 

We rode yesterday over a new railroad and occupied 
the first passenger train to use its rails. That road has 
been built down into the southern section of Utah in order 
to deliver the iron ore to the mills at Provo. That is 
another manifestation of the application of man's genius 
in providing his own necessities within a given area and 
thus removing another difficulty of transportation. The 
same suggestion applies to the woolen mills. It is of great 
advantage in this resourceful land of ours to develop indus- 
tries which will to some extent remove the problems of 
transportation. When we speak of transportation, my 
countrymen, we find ourselves more closely drawn to what 
is termed the "national viewpoint." We cannot live in 
America by entertaining only a local or sectional viewpoint. 
We could not have government aid in the building of 
necessary improved roads if Congress had only a narrow 
sectional viewpoint. You could not have the government 
aiding your irrigation projects, as I think it ought to aid 
and will aid them, if Congress did not have a National 
viewpoint. We must always be thinking of the concerns 
of our common country, and I like to see the manifesta- 
tions of national interest everywhere which have come to 
me on this trip across the continent. 

Rights and Obligations of Rail Workers 

Let me speak for a moment to the men in overalls on 
my left, who have come out here and given me a most 
pleasing welcome. I never boast about it, but I used to 
play in the band myself and I know what it is to leave 
the bench and take up a horn and toot it. I rejoice in 

the welcome which has come from the railroad men; but 
I want to say to you on this side that the boys on my 
left are just as much concerned with transportation as 
are you. It is the most important function in American 
life, because without transportation there is no inspiration 
to production. The most important thing about trans- 
portation in this country is its dependable continuity. I 
would not say anything to the men on my left that I 
would not be equally ready to say to those on my right; 
but I speak the truth when I tell you that I think the 
men who are engaged in transportation in this country 
ought to be the best paid men in any employment in 
America, and they ought to toil under the most fortunate 
working conditions. 

Compensation for Honest Work 

When I step on a railroad train I want to know that 
the man who has made the track has put his heart and 
soul into a perfect work; I want to know that the man 
who has constructed the car in which I ride has produced 
a perfect piece of American mechanism; I want the man 
who inspects the wheels to have made a perfect inspection, 
and I want the man who sits in the locomotive cab to 
have a steady eye, a clear brain, a brave heart, and a 
cool head at all times, because upon his judgment and the 
activities of every man coordinated in the railroad service 
depend the lives of those who ride on the American rail- 
ways. I speak only the truth when I say that such men 
ought to be the best compensated in any public service. 
I speak another truth when I say to them that they have 
not any right under any conditions to bring about a sus- 
pension of that public service. [Applause.] 

I do not mean to say that the government will ever 
require you to work against your will; that cannot be 
done in free America, for men may only be required to 
work as they choose to work ; but when they enter a public 
service employment upon which the welfare of the country 
depends, they ought to enter into some sort of arrangement 
whereby service will not be suspended because of any 

grievance until there has been a hearing and the justice 
of the cause has been determined. We have all the same 
interest in this America of ours, and you are just as 
much concerned in the continuity of transportation as are 
the people on my right who are dependent upon it. Do 
you not see, my countrymen, that in this marvelous land 
of ours our interests are mutual, and every great decision, 
no matter whether it affects employment in connection 
with transportation, or production, or irrigation, or what- 
not, must always take into consideration the common good 
rather than the particular good of any individual or group 
or section ? 

Pledges Just Treatment for the Indians 

I am reminded of another matter. I notice on my 
right some Indian maidens, and I do not think there is 
a more appropriate place in the country for me to say a 
word about our Indian citizenship and population. The 
United States wants to treat the Indians just as it treats 
everybody else in America. They have been our wards, to 
a certain extent, but the government has tried to bring them 
into the assumption of responsibility on their own account 
and to equip them to embrace our ideas of civilization, as 
civilization has been forced upon them. I do not believe 
there would be any Indian problem if the question to be 
considered were one between the government and the 
Indians alone. The Indian problem arises because of citi- 
zens quite apart from the government who have been prey- 
ing upon the Indians in their era of good fortune. 

The Indians have given wonderful service. I hold in 
my hand some figures which were prepared for my benefit 
on this occasion which are so interesting that I want to 
make a reference to them. During the World War, 12,000 
of our Indians gave of their service in the khaki uniform, 
and distinguished themselves in battle quite as notably as 
any other class of our citizenship. [Applause.] They came 
back not only with the joy of having been of service to 
the Republic, but with a fine record for conduct. Those 
who had command of them say that they never complained ; 
that they were easily disciplined; that they were without 

fear, and they were always ready to face death. They 
brought home with them, best of all, not only a number 
of distinguished service medals but eleven croix de guerre. 
Furthermore, while these numerous sons of the Indian 
tribes were at the front, the Indians at home subscribed 
$25,000,000 to the government's war fund. That was a 
manifestation of interest on the part of the Indians which 
deserves our highest commendation. [Applause.] 

I wish that the Western citizenship which comes in 
contact with the Indians would join in our efforts to make 
them ready to embrace the opportunities of American citi- 
zenship. The government is doing its full part. We have 
established 224 schools for Indian children, and 35,000 of 
them are in attendance at such schools. The Christian 
churches are maintaining 81 sectarian educational institu- 
tions among them, with missionary teachers, and the gov- 
ernment employs 150 physicians and operates 78 hospitals 
for the Indians. We are doing these things with a great 
deal of success, but that is no more than the Republic owes 
to the Indians. I rejoice to say that, in addition to doing 
these things, we have brought about a condition under 
which the Indian is no longer disappearing, but is growing 
in numbers, as well as in equipment to take advantage of 
the opportunities afforded by American life. [Applause.] 

Principles Which Guide Humankind 

The governor spoke of your rugged, unfailing rever- 
ence for the fundamentals of the American system of 
government, and I should like to dwell on that theme for 
a moment, because here in America, under the Constitu- 
tion which I believe to have been inspired, we Americans 
in less than a century and a half have builded the most 
wonderful Republic on the face of the earth. It is only 
147 years since the signing of the Declaration of Inde- 
pendence and only about 135 years since the making of 
the Constitution. In that short period we Americans have 
developed an empire to the amazement and wonderment of 
the earth. It is inconceivable to me that this matchless 
American accomplishment could have been founded upon 
false principles. We laid the eternal foundation of civil 

rights, and then the capstone of human rights, and then 
we erected the third, namely, that of religious liberty. 
Civil liberty, human liberty, and religious liberty are the 
foundations on which we have builded this Repubhc. God 
grant that nothing shall turn us away from any of these 
fundamentals. [Applause.] We can have no free Republic 
without all of them. I want this Republic of ours to con- 
tinue to live and march in the vanguard of nations. 

Oppartunities of Youth 

There stand before me a number of little girls. I 
cannot tell from their garb or their smiling faces or their 
conduct whether one is the daughter of a working man and 
another the daughter of a banker. They are all fine 
examples of American opportunity. Every boy and girl 
in America have the right to aspire, and under the Con- 
stitution opportunity beckons to them all precisely ahke. 
There is an obligation of government to equip these boys 
and girls so that they may better embrace American oppor- 
tunity. There is the obligation to maintain equality of 
opportunity and to equip the growing citizenship of the 
Republic to embrace it. If we shall only do that I know, 
my countrymen, we shall go on to greater numbers and 
greater achievement which we cannot even approximately 
estimate from our appraisals of America today. We are 
boundless in our material possibilities, and I know that, 
if we only keep the faith and maintain the institutions of 
the fathers, we shall finally have a Republic that no human 
being today is able to forecast. I hope in the growth of 
numbers and the widening of our influence, we shall adhere 
to those principles which have made us what we are and 
that we may continue a happy, hopeful and confident 
people; otherwise, we shall not be able to play our part 
in the leadership of the great human procession. 

Cherishes American Aloofness from Intrigue 

The governor made allusion to my efforts for the 
encouragement of the peace of the world. I had not 
intended to speak on that topic; but let me say that I 
cherish American aloofness and Amer'ican independence 

from the intrigues and the conspiracies of the Old World 
as much as any citizen in all the land. We have, however, 
witnessed the spectacle of a tremendous world upheaval 
which ought never to have occurred. We have seen millions 
of human lives sacrificed and billions of wealth expended. 
The cost in life and treasure has been so great that we 
shall not recover in two centuries to come. We have seen 
our own sons sacrificed in that great conflict, and sorrow 
and bereavement brought to homes everywhere through- 
out the RepubHc. I do not know that there will ever come 
a time in human affairs when men will be so actuated by 
conscience that there will be no more armed conflict; but 
I do believe that the great American people, who have 
learned to progress without the conflicts of force, ought to 
give of their influence in directing the world to a plane 
where war cannot occur. [Applause.] 

I sometimes wonder if your western communities are 
like those in which I grew up. I remember when I was 
a boy we had a trial before the justice's court nearly every 
day in the week. There never was a Saturday in our 
village without a dozen street fights; it was a dull day 
without that number of conflicts occurring. It seemed 
to be the accepted thing that many disputes had to be 
settled by resort to fisticuffs. When I went to the county 
seat town as a young man I remember we appraised the 
lawyers by the number of cases they had on the court 
docket. We were then getting out of the fighting period 
and having our disputes settled in court. Nowadays we 
have so far progressed that we largely appraise a lawyer 
by the nurnber of cases he does not have on the court 
docket, it being the theory that the best lawyer keeps his 
client out of court. That much progress has been made. 

Declares Arbitration Has Its Perils 

Among nations it has been the practice to resort to 
arms for the settlement of disputes. 

We have long been advocates of arbitration in America 
and we still adhere to that theory; but arbitration, my 
countrymen, has its perils. I am beginning to think that 

I would join the labor forces of the country in opposition 
to arbitration. In any arbitration we are bound to accept 
an umpire, either chosen by lot or chosen by some dis- 
interested power, and I do not mind saying to you I would 
a thousand times rather trust a decision, in which America 
is interested, to an international court of justice, with 
judges of high standing, than to any arbitration tribunal 
that has ever been created. [Applause.] 

There is already established a court of justice. It 
is not precisely to our liking, but I think, so long as we 
are moving in the direction of the possible settlement of 
justiciable disputes, that this Republic of ours ought to 
give its influence and its power to the support of an inter- 
national court, seeking to make it conform to American 
ideals so far as we can, and then hoping to go on progres- 
sively until the nations see the wisdom of leaving their 
disputes to peaceful settlement rather than to the arbitra- 
ment of arms. 

Government Ready to Help Its People 

My countrymen, as President, I have come to have 
a much more intimate knowledge of the cost of war. There 
has come to me the expression of the sorrows incident to 
war; there has come to my notice the unspeakable cost 
of war; there comes to me day by day the call of the 
service men who were impaired in the defense of the 
Nation. When I consider these things and stop to think 
that out of every dollar you pay in taxes to the Federal 
government 85 cents goes to pay for the cost of war, past 
or present, and only 15 cents to the employments of peace, 
I think that, if we are going to come up to God's highest 
ideal of humanity, we should do all in our power to wipe 
out every possibility in the future of a conflict of arms 
and devote our energies, our attention, our best thought, 
and all we have to those highest accomplishments which 
come to the victories of peace. [Applause.] 

It is fine to have greeted you, and I thank you from 
the bottom of my heart. I wish you the best ever, and 
I am pleased to say to you that if there is at any time, 

from the viewpoint of the Nation, anything it can do to 
further the development of your splendid State, the gov- 
ernment is in the most hearty sympathy with you and ready 
to help you. [Applause.] 

Before the presentation of the horseshoe, I wish you 
to know some of the members of my official family. You 
are very much interested here in the work of the Interior 
Department. I have the pleasure of presenting to you the 
Secretary of the Interior, Doctor Hubert Work. [Ap- 
plause.] 

Then I know there is another member of the Cabinet 
in whom you are greatly interested, and it is my pleasure 
to present to you a really great Secretary of Agriculture, 
Mr. Henry C. Wallace. [Applause.] 

I should like also to present the Speaker of the House 
but I am informed that he is not at present in the car. 

PRIDE IN INDIVIDUAL EFFORT ESSENTIAL 

Remarks in Acknowledgment of Gift of Horseshoe Pre- 
sented by Mr. Thomas Adkins, at Pocatello, Idaho, 
June 23, 11:55 a. m. 



My CountryTnen: 

1WANT to address you again in order to make acknowl- 
edgment of the gift which has been presented to me. 
Mr. Adkins, I am exceedingly grateful for this testi- 
monial. I will, in conformity with your admonition, carry 
it further than was originally intended by those who drove 
the wagons and met their unfortunate fate. There is some- 
thing else about it that I treasure even more. It is not 
alone the kind wishes of the blacksmith; it is not alone 
that it is a symbol of good fortune, but I like to possess 
it as a mark of the handicraft of an American mechanic 
whose numbers, alas, are growing far too few. In our 
modern life we are not developing the great mechanic as 
we once did. I can remember when the blacksmith was 
the most notable citizen in all the community. Everybody 
turned to him for assistance; not a few turned to him 

for advice; all of his friends turned to him for the neigh- 
borhood gossip, and he was a great factor in the com- 
munity. I think the most interesting man I have ever 
known in all my life was Chandler Smith, a village black- 
smith, who shod the horses, sharpened the plowshares, 
reset the wagon tires, and then when he had no special 
and urgent repair work to do turned his attention to 
building wagons and buggies, and he made better ones 
than any modern commercial manufacturer ever turned 
out. They were really great men, Mr. Adkins, who carried 
on the trades in the earlier and pioneer days, and I hope, 
sir, that you are preserving their type in this western 
country. 

I had no intention of speaking so long, but if there 
is one thing needed to bring us back to the industrial 
heights in America it is to have men who work at the 
bench or elsewhere put more soul in their work. [Ap- 
plause.] I know that Mr. Adkins has put his soul into 
the making of this horseshoe. Let me say that the greatest 
compensation in life is the pride in the things you have 
been able to do. [Applause.] That is what makes the 
waste places turn into gardens. If we can only have a 
great industrial army in America with pride in the work 
to be performed, each man eager to do his work better 
than everybody else, I am sure about the future of industrial 
America. I thank you, Mr. Adkins, and I also thank you, 
Governor Hawley. 

WESTERN MARCH OF CIVILIZATION 
